---
layout: post
title: Retrofit
categories: [project]
tags: [Android]
description: Introduction
---
###Why Retrofit?
Before using [Retrofit](http://square.github.io/retrofit/), I was searching for HTTP client.  After using Retrofit, my work gets more easy.  

Retrofit is a type-safe HTTP client for Android and Java developed by [Square](https://square.github.io/).  The library provides a powerful framework for authenticating and interacting with APIs and sending network requests with [OkHttp](https://square.github.io/okhttp).  
This library makes downloading JSON or XML data from a web API fairly straightforward. Once the data is downloaded then it is parsed into a Plain Old Java Object (POJO) which must be defined for each "resource" in the response.


Comparison of Volley and Retrofit :

| | One Discussion  |  25 Discussions |
| ------------- | :-------------: | :-------------: |
| Volley  | 560ms| 4275ms |
| Retrofit  | 312ms|1059ms  |  


Add library to project :

#####For Gradle:
```
compile 'com.squareup.retrofit:retrofit:1.9.0'
```

#####For Maven :
```
    <dependency>
    <groupId>com.squareup.retrofit</groupId>
    <artifactId>retrofit</artifactId>
    <version>1.9.0</version>
    </dependency>  
```  

Retrofit requires at minimum Java 7 or Android 2.3.  

###Overview  
In Retrofit,we need to create 3 classes.

1) **Interface** : We need to create an interface for managing URL calls like GET,POST etc. This is the service class.

**@GET(“/path/{id}”)** : This will call the server. Where URL is form after the BASE URL.The service  calling URL will start with ‘/’ and {id} is the string retrieved from edittext.

**@Path(“id”)** : String 'id' is the string which we get from the edittext.

2) **POJO (Plain Old Java Object) or Model Class** : The json retrieved from the server is added to this class.  
The Json from server cannot be use directly in Java,so we need to use model class.  
Use [jsonschema2pojo](http://www.jsonschema2pojo.org/) for creating the POJO easily.

3) **RestAdapter Class** : This is RESTClient Class. Gson is used in default for the Retrofit.You can use setup your own converter.  

*  API is the Base URL.

*  We need to create a RestAdapter object with Endpoint(API) and then buid().

* Call the function for getting the response,Callback is used for async method.We need Callback for both success request and error handling.

* Our parsed json will be now in POJO. You can call each by calling each item.

Make sure to require Internet permissions in your _AndroidManifest.xml_ file:

```
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />  
```
